# Secondary Market Research

## In Brief

Secondary market research gathers and interprets available information about the target market and includes published reports, newspaper articles, or academic journals. This method is used to figure out the size of the market or customer segment, pricing, and ways for the market to evolve. Secondary market research, also referred to as “desk research” or “market study,” is always done using third party sources, and there is no direct customer contact.

## Helps Answer

How much would our customers pay \(What should be the price of our product\)?  
What is the size of the market? \(How many customers would be using our product? How many would be paying customers?\)  
How much would it cost to sell? \(What are the marketing channels and their exploitation costs?\)

## Tags

B2C  
B2B \(studies of industry sectors\)  
Quantitative \(but simple figures\)  
Marketing channels  
Segments

## Description

This method does not refer to primary research such as customer discovery interviews, focus groups, surveys, and so forth. This form of market research is also called secondary research, that is “simply the act of seeking out existing research and data.”

As the data from secondary research cannot be easily verified and may come from a variety of sources, it is theoretical rather than experimental. Some would consider the data qualitative rather than quantitative because the researcher must factor in the quality of the data source to any conclusions.

The goal of secondary market research is to use existing information to derive and improve your research strategy prior to any first person research. Often, existing research can help determine rough market sizes and determine if first person research is worth the effort. With existing markets, a great amount of information can be found online or purchased from market research consultants.

This type of research can be performed for any market but is most often performed for companies targeting existing markets. For startups creating new markets, typically there is no information available.

We distinguish it from data mining, which is about exploiting big data sets \(existing or generated by you\) that are numerical in nature so that they can be automatically processed and plotted. We also distinguish it from Picnic in the Graveyard, which is about regarding existing or deceased products in the market rather than the market itself.

A first step is to find the relevant reports. Another step is to analyze them in a way that allows you to learn something about your product or idea.

We can distinguish two directions of research. In “market status” research, you look at:

* User behaviors: How often users have to use a similar product, in which circumstances \(not to be confused with user behaviors regarding specific products which is covered by the Picnic in the Graveyard method\).
* Marketing: What are the typical channels used? What are the costs of opening and maintaining such channels?
* Current technology: Benchmark technology to understand what kind of standards have been set regarding speed, accessibility, etc.

Identifying relevant reports will help derive target population size, prices, and costs, hence, your revenue.

In “trend research” you look at:

* User behaviors: What new user behaviors are emerging?
* Marketing: What new channels start being used in this area?
* Technology: What coming technology may disrupt the market and our own approach?

This helps deriving the possible evolution of your revenue and avoid pitfalls, or even give new ideas \(as a generative method then\).

A typical use of market research is to develop a first idea of the target population itself. For instance, you may want to know if your product would rather be used by teenagers or by young adults. Imagine your product is a Facebook app. There are numerous reports about growth of distinct Facebook population segments and their respective habits; hence you can find if your type of product can meet young or older Facebook users, and you can also see if this segment is growing or diminishing.

### Time Commitment and Resources

When performed for a particular occasion \(in order to answer a specific question about a market size for instance or in order to get a first big picture at the beginning of the project\), it may take from 1 to 3 days, depending on the difficulty of gathering relevant information and of the abundance and thus filtering of obtained information.

### How to

Where to find useful information:

* Libraries
* Professional associations
* Business groups
* Professional fairs
* Publications relevant to your target market
* Governmental organizations
* Public and nonprofit organizations that generate a lot of data \(hospitals, transportation systems, etc.\)

In order to get information that is relevant to your specific questioning, i.e., to the current status of your idea/product development, be specific. For instance, if you want to launch a service that enforces some privacy when publishing images on the Internet, you have to look beyond the population of people that publish images on the Internet \(which is extremely huge\). You have to figure out who is interested in privacy, who takes it seriously; and this is not necessarily just a subset of the first population because there can be people who do not currently publish any image just because they fear some privacy issues.

To be specific, you have to be smart or even crafty. For instance, you may exploit annual reports from corporations that may include interesting facts about their own target segment, embedded within the description of how their products are doing. Another trick is to use some tools that are primarily made for other purposes. For instance, by trying to promote something on Facebook \(a post, a page, or an app\), you can define an ad campaign; then, Facebook provides you with tools to target your population \(gender, age, device - iPhone or Android - and interests\), and then it displays information about the potentially reached population which in turn gives you an idea of its size. You do not need to actually launch the campaign and pay for this.

Research into competitors is also a source of information. Not just the competitor product, but also his users, marketing channels, prices and costs \(or producing methods\). Here again, it can be a generative method as well as an evaluative one, for instance in indicating how you could, and when you should, differentiate your product.

### Interpreting Results

This method can be quite extrapolative. You may resort to complex resources such as behavioral economics models. However, we want to keep it simple and allow the most space for actual experiments. Hence, you should use results in order to get an early idea of the market, to detect and qualify niches within that market, and have a broad idea of whether you should commit effort to that market. We use qualitative results to stay smart and aware, and to avoid missing a massive fact like a disruptive trend \(for instance when you want to launch a camera service to capture racers while self-piloted tracking drones are emerging\).

### Potential Biases

False positive will often be due to a lack of specificity in your research to accurately represent your own business. For instance, it is easy to get huge numbers for potential users of a image publication app, while the specificity of the service you have in mind \(e.g. to protect privacy or to enforce copyrights\) will drastically decrease the numbers.

False positives are also due to the scale of markets that are described by the survey you use. Most often, surveys describe wide international environments while you will tackle regional markets, or niches inside this market. The mechanisms that result in the described market may be different at your own scale.

Confirmation biases are often obtained by suddenly importing an unfounded ratio in your population estimate that actually make the result of the whole exercise fanciful. Indeed, you have to consider the size of the population you will actually acquire out of the target population which depends on the competition \(including indirect solutions\) and your marketing channels. If you omit the conversion rate or use one that is too whimsical, your results will be too optimistic. One of the goals of market research, by the way, is to try to get a documented and realistic conversion rate. So it is important not to just figure out the size of a population having a given problem but also understand what part of this population is typically following such or such marketing channel, and what part will do so in the future.

### Field Tips

* “When looking at available market surveys, take into account your product specificity” @tdagaeff 
* Got a tip? Add a tweetable quote by emailing us: [realbook@kromatic.com](mailto:realbook@kromatic.com)

## Case Studies

* [Secondary Market Research versus Primary Market Research](http://businesscasestudies.co.uk/jd-sports/using-market-research-to-support-decision-making/)
* [Example: Association Providing Links for Business in a Specific Area  - Queensland, Australia](https://www.business.qld.gov.au/starting-business/planning/market-customer-research/resources)
* Got a case study? Add a link by emailing us: [realbook@kromatic.com](mailto:realbook@kromatic.com) 

## References

* [Marketing Donut, General Description of Market Research](http://www.marketingdonut.co.uk/market-research/market-analysis)
* [Market Research Methods, Market Research vs. Direct Research](http://www.mymarketresearchmethods.com/an-overview-of-market-research-methods/)
* [Know This, Type of Research Types by Decision Types You Have to Take](http://www.knowthis.com/marketing-research/examples-of-research-in-marketing)
* [Entrepreneurship.org, Secondary Market Research Resources](https://www.entrepreneurship.org/articles/2007/04/secondary-market-research-resources)
* [SBA.gov, Free Sources: Market Data and How to Use Data for Business Planning](https://www.sba.gov/blogs/free-sources-market-data-and-how-use-data-business-planning)
* [Census.gov, US Census Historical Data](http://www.census.gov/programs-surveys/economic-census.html)
* [European Commission, Consumer Market Studies](http://ec.europa.eu/consumers/consumer_evidence/market_studies/index_en.htm)
* [US Commercial Services, Market Research Library](http://buyusainfo.net/adsearch.cfm)
* [Cornell University, How Can I Find Market Research Data](https://johnson.library.cornell.edu/faqs/how-can-i-find-market-research-reports-and-data)
* Got a reference? Add a link by emailing us: [realbook@kromatic.com](realbook@kromatic.com)



